MSci Research Proposals

In the first stage of the MSci project you work on a one-to-one basis with your supervisor to develop a feasible proposal for your forthcoming research project. At the same time, you survey relevant research literature, with guidance from your supervisor. The proposal is carried out during the first semester and once the proposal is complete you can start working on the research project.

During the semester you must submit a report on your work. This report should include a clear statement of the research problem; a literature survey; a proposed approach and work plan; and an annotated bibliography. The research problem must be of a suitable level of difficulty, and must be justified. The proposed approach should be appropriate and shown to be feasible (anticipating possible difficulties as far as possible), and must be accompanied by a realistic work plan. The literature survey should be comprehensive, critically reviewing previous work related to the research problem.

Report

Below is a suggested structure for your Research Proposal report:

0. Title page: including (in order from top to bottom), your project title, your name in full; and the month and year of submission.

1. Introduction: briefly explain the context of the research problem.

2. Statement of Research Problem: clearly state the particular problem to be addressed in your forthcoming research project. Explain why it would be worthwhile to solve this research problem.

3. Literature Survey: present an overview of the literature relevant to the research problem. Critically evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of the work reported in the literature.

4. Proposed Approach: state how you propose to solve the research problem. Show that your proposed approach is feasible, but identify any risks.

5. Work Plan: show how you plan to organize your work, identifying intermediate deliverables and dates.

Bibliography: list, in alphabetical order by author and date, all articles that you have consulted. For each article, give full bibliographic details and briefly summarize its content.

Please carefully read the University's plagiarism policy and guidelines.